[DM-4480] Public preview documentation for OPC UA MQTT mode (#3459)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/device-integration/opcua-bundle/device-protocols.md

}
```

> ### Device protocol behavior in MQTT Forwarding Mode {#devivice-protocol-behavior-in-mqtt-forwarding-mode}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Device protocol behavior in MQTT Forwarding mode {#device-protocol-behavior-in-mqtt-forwarding-mode}
```

If [MQTT Forwarding mode](#mqtt-forwarding-mode) is enabled, the configured functionalities in device protocols behave differently:

**Send measurement (MQTT Forwarding mode)**

Measurements are sent to the MQTT topic `te/<identifier>/m/<measurement-type>` of Thin Edge. Additional (static) fragments are not populated. 

**Create alarm (MQTT Forwarding mode)**

Alarms are created by sending them to the `te/<identifier>/a/<alarm-type>` MQTT topic of Thin Edge. Alarms are cleared by sending an empty message to the same topic. The logic to clear and deduplicate alarms is unchanged.

> **Send Event (MQTT Forwarding mode)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Send event (MQTT Forwarding mode)**
```

Events are sent to the `te/<identifier>/e/<event-type>` MQTT topic of Thin Edge.

> **Custom Actions (MQTT Forwarding mode)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Custom actions (MQTT Forwarding mode)**
```

> Custom actions in MQTT forwarding mode use the same body template mechanism. The endpoint of the custom action should be a valid MQTT topic. Headers are ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom actions in MQTT Forwarding mode use the same body template mechanism. The endpoint of the custom action should be a valid MQTT topic. Headers are ignored.
```

**Send measurement (MQTT Forwarding mode, merging enabled)**

> Merging measurements is only supported for cyclic reads but not for subscriptions. Variables coming in the same cyclic read (meaning they use the same data reporting in a device protocol) will be sent as a single, multi-value measurement to the `te/<identifier>/m/<measurement-type>` of Thin Edge. The configured type and series for the variable will be used as fragment and series in the measurement. If multiple variables are configured for the same type, the will be consolidated into a single fragment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Merging measurements is only supported for cyclic reads but not for subscriptions. Variables coming in the same cyclic read (meaning they use the same data reporting in a device protocol) are sent as a single, multi-value measurement to the `te/<identifier>/m/<measurement-type>` of Thin Edge. The configured type and series for the variable will be used as fragment and series in the measurement. If multiple variables are configured for the same type, they will be consolidated into a single fragment. 
```

The measurement type of the measurement is `OpcUaMeasurement` unless `gateway.mappings.mergedMeasurementType` in the configuration has been set to a different type.

> **Send Event (MQTT Forwarding mode, merging enabled)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Send event (MQTT Forwarding mode, merging enabled)**
```

> Merging events is only supported for cyclic reads but not for subscriptions. Variables coming in the same cyclic read (meaning they use the same data reporting in a device protocol) will be sent as a single event with multiple fragments to the `te/<identifier>/e/<event-type>` of Thin Edge. The configured type for the variable will be used as the fragment name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Merging events is only supported for cyclic reads but not for subscriptions. Variables coming in the same cyclic read (meaning they use the same data reporting in a device protocol) are sent as a single event with multiple fragments to the `te/<identifier>/e/<event-type>` of Thin Edge. The configured type for the variable is used as the fragment name.
```

The event type of the event is `OpcUaEvent` unless `gateway.mappings.mergedEventType` in the configuration has been set to a different type.

> **Custom Actions (MQTT Forwarding mode, merging enabled)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Custom actions (MQTT Forwarding mode, merging enabled)**
```

> Merging custom actions is only supported for cyclic reads but not for subscriptions. Variables coming in the same cyclic read (meaning they use the same data reporting in a device protocol) will be sent as a single measurement. For each variable the body template of the configured custom action is applied and the results are send as the string representation of a JSON array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Merging custom actions is only supported for cyclic reads but not for subscriptions. Variables coming in the same cyclic read (meaning they use the same data reporting in a device protocol) are sent as a single measurement. For each variable, the body template of the configured custom action is applied, and the results are sent as the string representation of a JSON array.
```

}
```

> ### Device protocol behavior in MQTT Forwarding mode {#device-protocol-behavior-in-mqtt-forwarding-mode}

Reviewer 2: Could you try out adding the new sections to 
{{< c8y-admon-preview-toggle >}}
...
{{< /c8y-admon-preview-toggle >}}

to make them visible if user enables the preview in the page?

Author: Done.

**Create alarm (MQTT Forwarding mode)**

Alarms are created by sending them to the `te/<identifier>/a/<alarm-type>` MQTT topic of Thin Edge. Alarms are cleared by sending an empty message to the same topic. The logic to clear and deduplicate alarms is unchanged.

**Send event (MQTT Forwarding mode)**

Events are sent to the `te/<identifier>/e/<event-type>` MQTT topic of Thin Edge.

**Custom actions (MQTT Forwarding mode)**

Custom actions in MQTT Forwarding mode use the same body template mechanism. The endpoint of the custom action should be a valid MQTT topic. Headers are ignored.

**Send measurement (MQTT Forwarding mode, merging enabled)**

Merging measurements is only supported for cyclic reads but not for subscriptions. Variables coming in the same cyclic read (meaning they use the same data reporting in a device protocol) are sent as a single, multi-value measurement to the `te/<identifier>/m/<measurement-type>` of Thin Edge. The configured type and series for the variable will be used as fragment and series in the measurement. If multiple variables are configured for the same type, they will be consolidated into a single fragment. 

> The measurement type of the measurement is `OpcUaMeasurement` unless `gateway.mappings.mergedMeasurementType` in the configuration has been set to a different type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The measurement type of the measurement is `c8y_OpcuaMeasurement` unless `gateway.mappings.mergedMeasurementType` in the configuration has been set to a different type.
```

**Send event (MQTT Forwarding mode, merging enabled)**

Merging events is only supported for cyclic reads but not for subscriptions. Variables coming in the same cyclic read (meaning they use the same data reporting in a device protocol) are sent as a single event with multiple fragments to the `te/<identifier>/e/<event-type>` of Thin Edge. The configured type for the variable is used as the fragment name. While it is allowed to use the same event type for multiple variables in a device protocol, here this will result in variables overwriting each other and hence generally discouraged.

> The event type of the event is `OpcUaEvent` unless `gateway.mappings.mergedEventType` in the configuration has been set to a different type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The event type of the event is `c8y_OpcuaEvent` unless `gateway.mappings.mergedEventType` in the configuration has been set to a different type.
```
